WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Good evening.
I'm William Brangham.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: The
White House
downplays reports that senior
adviser Jared
Kushner wanted to create a
secret back channel
to talk with the Russians.
Then, ahead of President Trump's
impending
decision on the Paris climate
accord, a look
at how one nation is putting the
pedal to
the metal in the electric car
industry.
MAN: We are not going back.
We are heading into the future.
I think, in 10 years, we will
see that at
least half of the sale from Opel
is electric,
if things are moving in the
direction we are
seeing right now.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And, for
years, experts
charged that China was turning
to executed
prisoners to obtain human organs
for transplants
and growing a transplant tourism
business.
Have reform efforts stopped the
practice?
DAVID MATAS, Attorney: They have
obviously
got a lot of people sitting
around waiting
to be killed for a transplant.
And they are just picking the
right person
to be killed depending on who
the patient
is.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Americans
spent this Memorial
Day honoring the men and women
who made the
ultimate sacrifice.
Since 1775, more than 1.2
million Americans
have died serving our country.
Lisa Desjardins reports.
LISA DESJARDINS: On this
national day of remembrance,
there were large events, like a
new president
laying a wreath to an unknown
soldier.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
We honor the noblest among us.
LISA DESJARDINS: At Arlington
National Cemetery,
President Trump expressed what
he called undying
gratitude.
DONALD TRUMP: We pay tribute to
those brave
souls who raced in to gunfire,
roared into
battle, and ran into hell to
face down evil.
They made their sacrifice not
for fame, or
for money, or even for glory,
but for country.
LISA DESJARDINS: Afterward, Mr.
Trump stopped
with Homeland Security Secretary
John Kelly
at the grave of Kelly's son
Robert, who was
killed in Afghanistan.
From there, the president met
other families
in Section 60 of the cemetery,
where military
members killed most recently,
especially in
Iraq and Afghanistan, are
buried.
DONALD TRUMP: He's looking down.
And he's very proud of you.
WOMAN: Thank you so much.
Thank you for everything you're
doing for
the country.
LISA DESJARDINS: But, for many,
the holiday
was defined by hometowns and
smaller personal
events.
In Raleigh, North Carolina, the
day was for
supporting survivors.
MAN: And we have a lot of
Vietnam veterans
in our detachment, so a lot of
those guys
have seen firsthand death,
losing friends
in their units, and so it's just
emotional
for us.
LISA DESJARDINS: At a military
parade in Illinois,
it was a day to salute veterans.
And at the Fort Snelling
National Cemetery
in Minneapolis, Minnesota, as in
many places,
it was a day of simple,
important remembrance.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Today, more
than 1.3 million
Americans are serving on active
duty.
In the day's other news: North
Korea fired
another ballistic missile, the
latest in a
series of tests, defying
international pressure.
The short-range missile landed
in Japanese
territorial waters.
In Tokyo, Japan's chief cabinet
secretary
said there were no immediate
reports of damage,
but he delivered a sharp rebuke.
YOSHIHIDE SUGA, Japanese Chief
Cabinet Secretary
(through translator): North
Korea continues
taking provocative actions,
despite the repeated
resolutions at the U.N. Security
Council.
Hence, it is necessary to apply
pressure.
It is not the time for dialogue
for dialogue's
sake.
We cannot tolerate these
repeated actions
and we lodge a strong protest
against North
Korea, criticizing them in the
strongest form.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Back in this
country, President
Trump also weighed in on the
test-launch,
tweeting that "North Korea has
shown great
disrespect for their neighbor
China."
The White House also condemned
the fatal stabbing
of two men aboard a train in
Portland, Oregon,
last week.
They were trying to help two
young Muslim
women who were being harassed by
a white supremacist.
One of the good samaritans who
died was an
Army veteran.
A third man who also came to
their aid was
badly wounded, but survived.
This morning, the president's
official White
House Twitter account tweeted:
"The violent
attacks in Portland on Friday
are unacceptable.
The victims were standing up to
hate and intolerance.
Our prayers are with them."
The president tweets regularly
from his personal
account, which has not made
mention of the
Portland attack.
Rescuers today in Sri Lanka
recovered more
bodies, raising the death toll
from heavy
floods and mudslides to at least
169 people.
Crews worked around-the-clock to
identify
bodies and clear debris.
More than 100 people are still
missing since
last Thursday's downpour.
WOMAN (through translator): My
house and small
shop were totally damaged by the
floods.
All my household items are gone
with the water.
Nothing is left, even jewelry,
money and all
our earnings gone with the
water.
We managed to survive.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Seventy-five
thousand people
have now fled to relief camps
set up in the
country's south and west, as the
country braces
for yet more rain.
This holiday weekend became a
travel nightmare
for British Airways customers.
A power supply problem brought
the airline's
computer systems to a halt,
stranding some
75,000 travelers.
But, today, flights returned to
a near-normal
schedule.
British Airways' chief executive
said his
company is working to determine
what went
wrong.
ALEX CRUZ, CEO, British Airways:
We are profusely,
profusely apologetic about what
has happened.
We are very conscious of the
hardship that
many of our customers have had
to go through
on their way to their holidays,
sometimes
on the way to personal events.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Cruz said
that, by day's
end, around two-thirds of
passengers whose
flights were canceled over the
weekend will
reach their destinations.
And a passing of note: We
learned today that
renowned sportswriter and
commentator Frank
Deford died yesterday in Key
West, Florida.
His career spanned five decades,
most notably
writing for "Sports Illustrated"
and providing
commentary on NPR's "Morning
Edition," from
which he just retired just this
month after
37 years.
Deford's views were always
delivered with
his signature passion and humor.
He was in many ways the
quintessential American
sports fan, right down to his
disdain for
the internationally beloved game
of soccer,
as in this 2006 "NewsHour"
interview.
FRANK DEFORD, Sportswriter:
Americans have
proven over and over again that
they don't
like the sport.
There's not enough scoring.
There are too many ties.
It's a very frustrating game.
What is called brilliant in
soccer is an incomplete
pass in football.
And the sport itself is
overdramatized with
the falling down.
There's entirely too many -- a
high percentage
of scores are because of
penalties, which
are very dubious.
And, simply, we have shown over
and over again
that we reject that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In 2013,
President Obama
awarded Deford the National
Humanities Medal,
the first sportswriter to ever
receive the
honor.
Frank Deford was 78 years old.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the White
House responds to allegations
surrounding
the president's son-in-law -- we
look at the
political and national security
implications;
Norway spearheads an electric
car revolution,
warning the U.S. could be left
behind; and
much more.
Now to the ongoing investigation
into Russian
meddling in last year's
election, and whether
the Trump campaign was in any
way involved,
may have taken a step closer to
the president's
own family.
It was another weekend of damage
control for
the Trump White House, this
following allegations
against President Trump's
son-in-law and senior
adviser Jared Kushner.
On Friday, The Washington Post
reported that,
in December, Kushner discussed
with Russian
Ambassador Sergey Kislyak the
possibility
of opening a secret and secure
communications
channel between the Trump team
and Moscow.
It adds, they considered using
Russian diplomatic
sites in the U.S. in order to
shield their
pre-inauguration discussions
from monitoring.
Several top administration
officials, while
not confirming the allegations,
have come
out defending Kushner.
Yesterday, on ABC's "This Week,"
Secretary
of Homeland Security John Kelly
said that
the idea didn't bother him.
JOHN KELLY, U.S. Homeland
Security Secretary:
It's both normal, in my opinion,
and acceptable.
Any way that you can communicate
with people,
particularly organizations that
are maybe
not particularly friendly to us,
is a good
thing.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Separately,
National Security
Adviser H.R. McMaster told
reporters he too
wasn't concerned.
He said: "We have back-channel
communications
with a number of countries."
And on CNN's "State of the
Union," Republican
Senator Lindsey Graham of South
Carolina questioned
the allegations altogether.
SEN.
LINDSEY GRAHAM (R), South
Carolina: I don't
trust this story as far as I can
throw it.
The whole storyline is
suspicious.
I have never been more concerned
and suspicious
about all things Russia than I
am right now.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For his part,
the president
told The New York Times on
Sunday he has total
confidence in his son-in-law.
All this, however, has done
little to quell
the storm of criticism.
Former Acting CIA Director John
McLaughlin
told MSNBC he was shocked by the
charges.
JOHN MCLAUGHLIN, Former Acting
CIA Director:
I can't keep out of my mind the
thought that
if an American intelligence
officer had done
anything like this, we'd
consider it espionage.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And back on
ABC's "This
Week," California Democrat Adam
Schiff, the
ranking member of the House
Intelligence Committee,
said Kushner's access to
classified material
needs to be reexamined.
REP.
ADAM SCHIFF (D), California: But
I do think
there ought to be a review of
his security
clearance to find out whether he
was truthful,
whether he was candid.
If not then, there's no way he
can maintain
that kind of a clearance.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Before these
latest allegations
broke, Kushner's attorneys said
he'd work
with the Senate on its
investigation into
Russian election meddling.
Yesterday, Chairman of the
Foreign Relations
Committee Tennessee Republican
Bob Corker
said Kushner will still
cooperate.
With me now to discuss the
Kushner allegations,
and the wider Russia probe, are
two men with
deep knowledge of intelligence
and law enforcement.
Frank Montoya Jr. spent 26 years
in the FBI.
He oversaw national security and
counterintelligence
probes.
He joins us from Salt Lake City.
And John Sipher served 28 years
in the CIA's
clandestine service stationed in
Russia and
Eastern Europe.
He also ran counterintelligence
investigations
within the agency.
He's now with the consulting
firm CrossLead.
Welcome to you both.
John Sipher, I would like to
start with you.
What is your reaction to this?
You said to me earlier that this
leak, this
particular leak, is different
from other leaks.
How so?
JOHN SIPHER, Former CIA Officer:
What strikes
me about this which is so
unusual is, this
is really putting
hyperpartisanship.
It's putting party above
country.
It's trusting a hostile foreign
government
more than you trust the duly
elected government
that is in power at the time.
And what's also unusual about
this, I think,
is many of these leaks, as
frustrating as
they probably are to the
administration, don't
strike to the heart of the
investigation.
This one sounds like it may do
so, because
it highlights a sensitive
collection effort,
if, in fact, true, and also it
looks like
it gives some information on
some of the things
we have been seeing around the
edges for months
now.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Frank Montoya,
turning to
you, what is your reaction to
all this?
I mean, you heard the
administration's defenders,
the national security adviser,
many people
arguing this is nothing, nothing
to see here,
please move on.
What is your reaction?
FRANK MONTOYA JR., Former FBI
Official: John
is spot on.
I think some of the other
aspects of this,
we get track two kind of
communications or
diplomacy or however you want to
call these,
whether it's a back-channel
access to a government,
but that's usually when you are
the government
in power, having that
communication with another
government.
What really stands out to me in
this one is
the discussion, if true, as John
noted, about
using a foreign nation state's
communications
system, especially like a
foreign nation state
like Russia.
It's just -- I think a term used
this past
weekend about either being
incredibly naive
or absolutely crazy.
I would say stupid is more like
it in terms
of just the thought process that
had to occur
if, in fact, that was the
discussion.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: John, you
heard Frank mention
this, the idea that, again, if
these allegations
are true, that Kushner asked the
Russians,
can we use your facilities, your
hardware
to have these communications?
Why is that particularly
troubling?
JOHN SIPHER: This is a very
sophisticated
adversary.
The notion that we would go and
work with
them inside their embassy, this
is something
that just is beyond the pale for
professionals.
And it almost is, if you want to
assume this
is naivete by the Trump campaign
and Mr. Kushner,
it really is like lambs going in
to do with
the lions here.
This is a very dangerous thing.
People who deal with the
Russians in the government
follow a whole series of
procedures and regulations
to avoid concerns of espionage
and subversion
and corruption.
And it doesn't appear that they
did here.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Do you think
that there
is another rational explanation
for this,
that, perhaps as some of
Kushner's supporters
have said, they genuinely wanted
to talk to
the Russians about Syria and
other matters,
and this was just maybe a poorly
chosen vehicle
for having those conversations?
JOHN SIPHER: It's possible, but
like Frank
said, then very stupid.
Perhaps there's naivete here.
Having a back channel is
something that governments
have done in the past, and there
is nothing
wrong with it.
But my question would be, why
the secrecy?
The president-elect had been
talking about
changing the relationship with
Russia for
quite a long time.
There would be no need to go to
this effort
to try to hide from your own
government what
you're doing.
FRANK MONTOYA JR.: Yes, if I
could add to
that, William, this is also
demonstrating
a gross distrust or mistrust of
his own intelligence
community.
If that's what he wanted to do,
we could have
facilitated that for him.
Even as president-elect, moving
into the inauguration
and beyond, when he becomes the
government,
this is what we do for our
presidents.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I know you
talk with a lot
of agents, some of them who
might be in the
midst of this actual
investigation.
What do these ongoing leaks mean
to them,
do to them, do to their ability
to do their
jobs?
FRANK MONTOYA JR.: Yes, from a
day-to-day
perspective, it makes it
incredibly difficult.
Who they going to be able to
talk that is
going to want to tell them the
straight story,
if it's -- the fear is, it's
going to show
up on a news channel or on cable
or on the
Internet?
And so, yes, it really does make
it difficult
to dig into the matters that
need to be addressed
and, you know, to put together
the pieces
of the puzzle that will get us
to the end
of this thing.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But couldn't
you also argue
that there is a societal
benefit, that we
-- it's useful for people to
know what their
government is up to?
FRANK MONTOYA JR.: Yes, that's
one of the
conundrums right now.
This started out anyway as a
counterintelligence
investigation.
It's become public.
There are aspects of this, I
think, that are
really important.
When you look at it from a
historical context,
for instance, one of the key
sources in the
Watergate issue was an FBI
special agent.
And so individuals that have
information,
if there is concern that it may
-- that things
are not going the way that they
should be
or they are not going to be able
to make the
case, could that be a reason for
these leaks,
at least to get the information
out there
to address initiatives beyond an
operation
or a source or a method, but
actually involves
the security of the republic?
Yes, I can see why people would
think that
way.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: John, did you
want to add
to that?
JOHN SIPHER: Just want to add
one thing.
A lot of these leaks, there's
sort of talk
around this that there's a deep
state of people
in the law enforcement and
intelligence community
that are trying to undermine the
president.
And I want to make it clear,
from my understanding,
is, I don't think that's the
case.
There are a lot of leaks here,
but like many
leaks in this town, they tend to
come from
the White House or Congress or
people who
are back-briefed on pieces of
information.
And when that comes out, that's
very frustrating.
But I have seen very little that
looks like
it's come out with the kind of
detail that
is coming from the professionals
in the FBI
or the CIA, the information that
is behind
this look.
So, frustrating, yes, but, so
far, I don't
think this stuff is the
professionals are
trying to undermine the
administration in
any way.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
John Sipher,
Frank Montoya, thank you both
very much.
JOHN SIPHER: Thanks.
FRANK MONTOYA JR.: You bet.
Thank you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For more on
the allegations
surrounding Jared Kushner, the
White House's
handling of the Russia
investigation, and
a look at the president's first
trip abroad,
it's time for Politics Monday
with Tamara
Keith of NPR and Amy Walter of
The Cook Political
Report.
Welcome to you both.
Happy Memorial Day.
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Yes.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Tam, first to
you.
We have just been hearing about
these allegations
about Jared Kushner and this
possible back
channel he wanted to deal with
the Russians.
What is your sense of how the
White House
is handling this and dealing
with this?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, the
president has been
tweeting about fake news over
the weekend.
He sort of came home, and the
Twitter machine
turned right back on.
And he wasn't necessarily
explicitly responding
to this, but it certainly seemed
like some
of it may have been inspired by
this, certainly.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: That's the
assumption.
TAMARA KEITH: And there's a lot
of reporting
that I have not personally been
able to confirm,
but that the White House is
looking at creating
sort of a war room-type of
thing, where there
would be -- much like in the
Clinton administration,
where there would be people
walled off to
deal with this.
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Well,
and the war room would be on top
of another
potential shakeup, which is --
we hear the
story of a potential shakeup in
the White
House, it seems, every other
week.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And this week
is no different.
AMY WALTER: And this week seems
to be no different,
even though...
TAMARA KEITH: And thus far, it
hasn't shaken.
AMY WALTER: Correct.
TAMARA KEITH: But this week
could be the week
that that changes.
AMY WALTER: That's right.
Usually, you do a shakeup
because you know
that you have a problem or you
gaps and you're
going to fill those gaps.
The challenge here, though, is,
even in building
the war room, what they're
talking about is
bringing people in to fill the
gaps who have
the same problems and challenges
as the people
who are currently there in the
White House.
They don't have any governing
experience.
They have loyalty to Donald
Trump, but don't
have the breadth of experience
in dealing
with Washington that you need to
do to set
up as something as complicated
as a war room.
And in dealing with Washington,
especially
the legislative process, they
still don't
have people in positions who can
go up and
work with Capitol Hill.
Most important, you can have a
war room, you
can have a war plan, but if your
general -- in
this case, it's Donald Trump --
isn't following
the plan and is tweeting or is
going and giving
interviews that contradict the
plan, then
none of this really matters.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Makes your job
very tough.
AMY WALTER: Yes.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For those
people who are
not following the scuttlebutt
about this,
if there's a shakeup, they're
talking about,
what, in the communications
department of
the White House?
TAMARA KEITH: Yes, most of the
focus has been
on the communications, which
that seems like
treating the surface-level thing
and there's
something very deep going on
well below the
surface.
The White House certainly has
had trouble
in the ways it has communicated.
Part of that is that, you know,
they do have
policy proposals that they're
trying to push
out, but often they don't
provide the information
backing it up.
You know, let's go with the
president's tax
proposal.
Now, in part, that was because
the president
in an interview said, I'm going
to have a
tax proposal and you need to get
it together
in a week.
And so they threw together a tax
proposal
in a week.
There wasn't a lot of
communication or anything
about sort of like what this
thing is.
Ultimately, it was on one sheet
of paper,
and there was no electronic
version.
It was just a sheet of paper
that was passed
around, and then we would take
pictures and
text it to our colleagues.
So, that is not like a fully
built-up plan.
That's not a rollout.
And they have been not doing a
lot of rollouts.
So, even now, they're not in
control of their
narrative with a lot of the
stuff because
there are leaks and there are
stories and
every day there is a story.
But the things that they do
control, they
have not done it in a way that
past White
Houses have, where they have
been able to
sort of more dominate the
conversation.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: What does this
do to the
president's larger agenda?
It seems like if they're not --
they have
got the White House, they have
got the Senate,
they have got the Congress.
This is their time.
AMY WALTER: This is exactly
right.
He's going to be judged -- this
president
is going to be judged on how
well he governs.
And his party is going to be
judged on that
more quickly than he is.
They're up in 2018.
The challenge isn't simply that
it is difficult
to get some of these big things
through, right?
It's hard enough to get health
care, tax reform,
infrastructure, but when the
president lacks
the focus and the discipline to
help make
this happen.
So part of the challenge is, if
you're going
to stick -- as I said, you're
going to stick
with a war plan, then stick with
the war plan.
But when you have your plan
going forward,
and then a tweet comes from the
president
of the United States that then
takes us off-track
and back into this morass, it
seems every
time the White House seems to be
moving on,
getting to the next topic, the
president,
whether by tweets or by
interviews or saying
something off the cuff, brings
them right
back to where they started.
If it were up to the president,
his communication
strategy would simply be for him
to get on
every day in front of -- or
behind the podium,
he would be the only messenger.
He sees himself still as the
best messenger.
But the chaos candidacy that
worked for him
in 2016, it's the style that
in the business world, of course
it can translate,
he believes.
Of course it is going to
translate into governing.
It doesn't.
It hasn't.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You were with
the president
when he seemed to be doing some
of what Amy
is describing.
This was on his whole trip
abroad.
What do they look back at, the
administration,
as the successes of that trip?
TAMARA KEITH: The remarkable
thing is, throughout
the trip, we were on our way to
Israel -- or
we were on our way to Rome, and
we were asking
an administration official, how
did it go
in Israel?
What did you think?
And they kept going back to
Saudi Arabia.
Every -- every time that they
had a chance,
administration officials went
back to Saudi
Arabia.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: They saw that
as the highlight
of the trip?
TAMARA KEITH: I think they
really did see
that as the highlight of the
trip.
And one thing that stands out to
me about
that is that they announced
nearly $400 billion
in deals, and we still don't
have the details
of what those deals are.
And it's not for lack of trying
to get that
information.
I have been asking on a regular
basis, you
know, hey, that arms deal,
what's it made
up of?
Where does the other $400
billion come from
-- or $300 billion?
And it just has not been
forthcoming.
But they really do believe that
that beginning
part -- you know, one
administration official
said that the president brought
the Muslim
world together.
They talk about it in
superlatives.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Hmm.
Wow.
One of the things that we also
saw, the president
went and signed some big deals
in Saudi Arabia.
He also went and told the
Europeans, hey,
you guys got to pay out more for
NATO.
AMY WALTER: That's right.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: On some level,
this is what
his base expects of him.
AMY WALTER: Absolutely.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I'm going to
go rattle the
cage.
I'm going to tell those euro
guys what's what.
Like, this has to resonate very
strongly with
them.
AMY WALTER: Well, this is -- he
campaigned
as an America-first candidate.
He campaigned as somebody who
was very skeptical
of these multinational deals.
He was supportive of Brexit.
He was very skeptical of NATO.
So what we saw of President
Trump in Europe
was what we saw of President
Trump as a candidate.
So, that, we shouldn't be
surprised at all
about.
I think there were mixed
signals, at the same
time, from administration
officials, saying,
well, of course we're still very
supportive
of NATO.
Of course, even though we didn't
explicitly,
the president didn't explicitly
use the term
Article 5 in his speech, of
course he supports
that.
So I still think there's some
tension there.
But it's pretty clear that, when
the president
made his statements as a
candidate, he's following
through with those as a
president.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right, Amy
Walter, Tamara
Keith, thank you both very much.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
human rights
experts say that, for years,
China took organs
from executed prisoners for
transplants -- have
reform efforts stopped the
practice?; and
our summer reads, the new books
you won't
want to put down.
But first: President Trump
announced over
the weekend that he will decide
this week
whether the U.S. will remain
part of the Paris
climate accord.
That accord, signed last year by
195 countries,
commits those nations to
significantly reduce
their carbon emissions to combat
climate change.
But President Trump has long
argued that environmental
regulations cost American jobs,
and he's vowed
to undo them, and he's also
described climate
change itself as a hoax.
European leaders last week urged
the president
not walk away from the accord.
In Scandinavia, which is a world
leader in
green technology, politicians
and environmentalists
want the president to follow
their lead, and
increase investment in
environmentally friendly
technologies like electric cars.
Special correspondent Malcolm
Brabant reports
from Norway, the world's fastest
growing electric
car market.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Norway prides
itself on being
one of the world's most pristine
countries.
Yet, amid the stunning scenery,
there are
reminders that its vast wealth
comes from
decades of gas and oil
production.
But Norwegians are turning their
backs on
fossil fuels and embracing
electric cars like
nowhere else.
Ann Kunish, who moved from
Wisconsin 30 years
ago, is one of the new converts.
ANN KUNISH, Norway: This car is
a no-brainer.
There's no question about it.
It's very, very easy to choose
electric cars.
The Norwegian government has
made it much
more financially feasible to buy
them.
They don't have the same fees,
free parking
in municipal spots.
More and more charging stations
are being
built, lower yearly fee to use
the roads,
no tolls.
MALCOLM BRABANT: New electric
car sales in
Norway have now passed 100,000,
giving it
the highest per capita ownership
level in
the world.
In comparison, there are over
half-a-million
electric cars in the U.S.
To have the same percentage as
Norway, America
would require 6.25 million
electric cars on
the road.
This is Oslo's rush hour, as
electric car
drivers hunt a parking spot at
the city's
biggest charging station.
The energy is almost completely
renewable
energy, as 98 percent of the
country's power
comes from hydroelectric plants.
Norwegians endure some of the
world's heaviest
taxes, and removing sales
tariffs from electric
cars has been irresistible.
The government aims to end sales
of gasoline
and diesel vehicles by 2025.
PETTER HAUGNELAND, Industry
Advocate: There
has to be a big difference if
you choose a
zero emission car or a polluting
car when
you buy it on the tax system.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Industry
advocate Petter
Haugneland argues taxes on
fossil fuel vehicles
should be increased to speed up
the process.
PETTER HAUGNELAND: In Norway,
transport sector
is a key element to lower the
emissions.
We need to cut our emissions
very fast if
we're going to do something
about the climate
problem.
MALCOLM BRABANT: In March,
President Trump
canceled a fuel economy ruling
put in place
by the Obama administration
requiring automakers
to achieve 54 miles a gallon by
2025, double
the present level.
Environmentalists claimed higher
standards
would boost sales of hybrid and
electric cars.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
The assault on the America auto
industry,
believe me, is over.
It's over.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Norway's
environment minister,
Vidar Helgesen, belongs to a
center-right
party that once aligned with the
Republicans.
It now has more in common with
the Democrats.
Helgesen didn't criticize
President Trump
directly, but sent a clear
message not to
turn back the clock.
VIDAR HELGESEN, Norwegian
Foreign Minister:
Our position is very much that
we very much
need to build competitiveness
for the future.
We also need to care about the
jobs that don't
exist today that need to exist
in the future.
We know that the Chinese are
investing massively
in renewable energy.
We know the Chinese and other
major up coming
economies are investing a lot in
electric
vehicles.
I think they're building green
competitiveness
for the future.
MALCOLM BRABANT: And this is
precisely what
the minister is talking about:
an electric
car start-up in southern Sweden
which is reinventing
the steering wheel to be more
like a game
console.
LEWIS HORNE, CEO, UNITI: This is
not how we
will mechanically achieve it in
the car, because
this is not very nice for the
user.
There are different ways we will
mechanically
achieve it, which will be
unveiled later this
year.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The CEO, Lewis
Horne, has
taken on 30 engineers and hopes
to employ
1,000 people once production
begins in early
2019 on a compact car that's
still under wraps.
LEWIS HORNE: So, you can see a
little hint
of two models which are the
result of a lot
of research and design.
In the future, the jobs are just
different.
Historically, when we have had
an industry
that's so damaging to our health
now, that's
not a place where you should be
creating more
jobs.
We should be creating more jobs
in the future
of these industries.
DONALD TRUMP: There is no more
beautiful sight
than an American-made car.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The owner of
this '56 Chevy
Bel Air couldn't agree more.
Henning Kjensli works for the
American Car
Club of Norway.
But while he's sympathetic to
the need for
job creation, he's also in favor
of going
green.
HENNING KJENSLI, American Car
Club of Norway:
Developing and researching new
technology
costs tons of money.
And right now, the best earnings
in the American
automobile market is in the
full-size pickup
and SUV segment.
They should still make those
cars and sell
them and make money off of them,
but they
need to sort of reinvest the
profits from
those cars into new and modern
technology.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Fuel prices are
the crucial
difference between the U.S. and
Norway.
Norwegians pay about $7 a
gallon.
Gas is roughly five dollars
cheaper in America,
reducing the financial incentive
to drive
electric.
This is a partially
American-made electric
car, the $35,000 Ampera-e.
It's a collaboration between
General Motors
and South Korea's L.G.
GM's European arm, Opel,
launched the car
in Norway in May.
Impressed by its range of more
than 300 miles
on a single charge, so many
Norwegians have
been ordering the Ampera-e, that
there's now
a 15-month waiting list.
MAN: We are not going back.
We are heading into the future.
I think, in 10 years, we will
see that at
least half of the sale from Opel
is electric,
if things are moving in the
direction we are
seeing right now.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Norway may be a
world leader
when it comes to electric cars,
but its environmental
record is far from perfect.
Its greenhouse gas emissions are
increasing.
Most of those are coming from
oil and gas
production, which provides
Norway with its
wealth.
And critics are very unhappy
that Norway is
pushing to expand fossil fuel
production in
the Arctic and believe that its
climate change
policies are inconsistent.
FREDERIC HAUGE, Bellona
Foundation: It's schizophrenic,
because Norway is a nice little
country of
petroholics.
MALCOLM BRABANT: This
top-of-the-range electric
SUV is the pride and joy of
Frederic Hauge,
a veteran eco-warrior who was a
pioneer of
electric cars in Norway.
FREDERIC HAUGE: You can say
maybe that the
electric car is a Trojan horse
towards the
Norwegian oil industry.
The battery revolution will
bring down the
oil price to $20 to $25 a barrel
before 2030.
And then the stupid things
Norway is doing
in the Arctic, the oil drilling,
will also
be stopped because of economic
reasons.
DONALD TRUMP: We're setting up a
task force
in every federal agency to
identify and remove
any regulation that undermines
American auto
production and any other kind of
production.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Such statements
alarm environmentalists
in Denmark 300 miles to the
south.
Denmark generates about 40
percent of its
electricity from wind power and
is on track
to hit its target of 50 percent
by 2020.
But these and other renewable
energy efforts
need to be increased, according
to Danish
climate scientist Sebastian
Mernild.
SEBASTIAN MERNILD, Climate
Scientist: Regarding
this green development, we can
hardly see
any impact so far, because the
amount of CO2
in the atmosphere is increasing
year by year.
We are for sure helping the
environment, but
not enough.
And we need to speed up this
green development.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The European
Union, whose
environment agency is based in
Copenhagen,
is fully committed to the Paris
climate agreement,
which requires signatories to
tighten up emissions
by 2020 and beyond.
Its dismayed that the president
may leave
the accord.
Climate change specialist Magda
Jozwicka.
MAGDA JOZWICKA, Climate Change
Specialist:
It is, of course, very important
that countries
around the world stick to the
Paris agreement,
because, overall, we need to
work on our long-term
de-carbonization goals and the
long-term well-being.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The
Scandinavians doubt that
environmental arguments will
change the president's
mind, but they hope the economic
case for
electric cars will have more
success.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Malcolm Brabant
in Norway.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Decades ago,
China began
a practice that human rights
advocates and
medical ethicists condemned:
taking organs,
such as kidneys and livers, from
executed
prisoners to transplant into
people who needed
them.
The Chinese government says it's
reformed
the practice.
Now they say they only recover
organs from
volunteers.
But some say the practice
continues.
Hari Sreenivasan and producer
Dan Sagalyn
have the story.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This is when a
life is renewed.
A transplant surgeon, seen here,
removes a
kidney from a volunteer donor
and inserts
it into someone whose kidneys
are failing.
In most cases, patients who need
a new organ
have to wait months or years
before one is
available.
But this man, who told us he had
end-stage
kidney disease 11 years ago,
could wait no
longer.
MAN (through translator): I was
on dialysis
already two years, and I was
constantly going
downhill.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We met him in
Vancouver,
Canada.
He asked that we conceal his
identity by hiding
his face and replacing his voice
to protect
his privacy.
MAN (through translator): They
called these
people the living dead.
You just haven't died yet, but
you're gone.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Because of his
age and rare
blood type, he says he would
have died before
reaching the top of the waiting
list for a
new kidney.
So, urged by family and friends,
he went to
China's capital, Beijing, in
2006.
Within one week, he received a
new kidney.
He says he paid $10,000 for the
transplant.
In Canada, it would have been
free, since
the government pays for health
care.
In the U.S., the average
hospital charge for
a kidney transplant is $150,000.
Traveling to another country for
this kind
of surgery is called transplant
tourism.
MAN (through translator): I went
there dead.
I came back alive.
HARI SREENIVASAN: On average, 22
people die
every day in the United States
waiting for
a transplant.
The median wait time for a lung
here is four
months, a heart almost a year,
and a kidney
two years.
Transplant tourists
understandably have been
drawn to other countries by
promises of little
to no wait.
It's not just Canada that
generates transplant
tourists to China.
On the other side of the world,
at about the
same time, an Israeli doctor had
a patient
who also needed a transplant.
DR.
JACOB LAVEE, Israel Society of
Transplantation:
Back in 2005, a patient of mine
came to me
one day and told me, doc, I'm
fed up waiting
here in Israel for a suitable
heart donor
to become available, and I was
told -- that's
what he told me -- by my
insurance company
that I should go to China
because they have
scheduled me to undergo heart
transplantation.
And he specified a specific date
two weeks
ahead of time.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Heart surgeon
Dr. Jacob
Lavee is president of the Israel
Society of
Transplantation.
While kidney transplants can
involve obtaining
a kidney from a living donor,
that is not
the case with a heart
transplant.
DR.
JACOB LAVEE: If a patient was
promised to
undergo a heart transplant on a
specific date,
this could only mean that the --
those who
promised that knew ahead of time
when his
potential donor would be dead.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Human rights
investigator
Ethan Gutmann and lawyer David
Matas have
testified before Congress about
China's transplant
system.
DAVID MATAS, Attorney: It is
unconscionable
to kill a healthy, innocent
person so that
a sick person can live.
HARI SREENIVASAN: They say they
know how organs
in China become available with
no wait time.
DAVID MATAS: They have obviously
got a lot
of people sitting around waiting
to be killed
for a transplant.
And they are just picking the
right person
to be killed depending on who
the patient
is.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Matas and
Gutmann say Chinese
doctors have coordinated with
Chinese prison
officials, and inmate executions
take place
when patients are in need of
organs.
Medical professionals and human
rights advocates
say this practice violates the
prisoner's
human rights.
However, this is how one Chinese
doctor justified
the practice.
This video was produced by the
Chinese government.
DR.
HE XIAOSHUN, First Affiliated
Hospital (through
translator): To apply the
traditional Chinese
way of thinking, the prisoners
committed sins
in their lives.
If we let them donate their
organs, well,
in a sense, they are offering
salvation.
They can atone for their crime
with that opportunity.
HARI SREENIVASAN: At a press
conference in
2005, China's vice minister of
health, Huang
Jiefu, admitted the government
took organs
from executed prisoners.
But, in 2014, Huang Jiefu, who
is now leading
the reform efforts in China,
declared that,
starting in 2015, China would
stop using organs
from executed prisoners.
But Matas and Gutmann believe
they have evidence
that this practice still
continues.
They say inmates on death row
include prisoners
of conscience, such as
practitioners of Falun
Gong who become unwilling
sources for organs.
Falun Gong is a form of Chinese
meditation
and exercise with a spiritual
underpinning.
Since 1999, the Chinese
government has cracked
down on Falun Gong, charging it
with being
an unregistered religion and
cult that aims
to subvert the state.
DAVID MATAS: We interviewed
Falun Gong who
got out of prison, got out of
China, systematically
blood-tested, organ-examined,
not for their
health -- they were being
tortured -- and
only the types of examinations
relevant to
transplantation.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Wang Chunying
and Yin Liping
practice Falun Gong.
Both say they were detained a
number of times
between 1999 and 2009.
WANG CHUNYING, Former Prisoner
(through translator):
In 2008, I was forced to take a
blood draw.
The atmosphere was very tense
and horrific.
I thought this blood draw must
be related
to looking for matching organs.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The Chinese
government might
say, we just needed more blood.
That is all.
We didn't take her organs.
We didn't do anything to her
body.
We just took blood to make sure
there wasn't
an infection in the yard.
How do you know that the
government wanted
your blood for any other
reasons?
WANG CHUNYING (through
translator): Because
the living conditions were
terrible in the
reeducation camp.
They didn't care about whether
we lived or
died.
YIN LIPING, Former Prisoner
(through translator):
Once, I was forced to take a
blood draw.
There were multiple times of
other tests,
such as MRI, ultrasound and
chest X-ray.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Gutmann says
he's interviewed
ethnic minorities from Tibet and
Xinjiang
who all tell similar stories
about medical
examinations while in prison.
ETHAN GUTMANN, Human Rights
Investigator:
When you start to hear the same
description
of an examination in a
completely different
language from a completely
different group,
but it's the same examination,
this is one
of the big tipoffs that this is
really directed
towards China's enemies, its
political and
religious enemies.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Matas and
Gutmann say there's
another possible motive driving
this practice:
profit.
In the past, some Chinese
hospitals even advertised
the costs of new organs, $98,000
to $130,000
for a liver, $130,000 to
$160,000 for a heart.
By reviewing Chinese medical
publications,
hospital Web site data, and
making calls to
hospitals, Gutmann and Matas
estimate there
could be 60,000 to 100,000
transplants still
taking place each year in China.
The Chinese government rejects
these accusations.
In 2016, it says there were just
over 13,000
transplants performed in the
country.
Compare that to the United
States that had
33,000 transplants last year.
In an e-mail to the "NewsHour,"
a spokesman
from the Chinese Embassy in
Washington, D.C.,
writes: "The Chinese government
firmly abide
by the internationally
recognized ethical
principles about organ
transplantation, and
adhere to the voluntary organ
donation after
the death of Chinese citizens."
We asked if political prisoners
were singled
out for execution for their
organs.
The embassy didn't respond to
this question.
Chinese officials do say, since
2015, they
no longer recover organs from
prisoners.
Dr. Huang Jiefu, who is leading
reform efforts,
acknowledged in an interview
with a Chinese
newspaper progress has been
slow.
"Our use of death row prisoner
organs before
the establishment of a citizen
organ donation
system was an act of desperation
to save the
lives of patients suffering
organ failure.
When the citizen donation system
was set up,
we abolished this source of
organs as quickly
as possible."
In February of this year, at a
Vatican conference
on organ trafficking, Chinese
medical leaders
agreed that using organs from
executed prisoners
is a crime and should be
condemned worldwide.
A number of American doctors who
have been
to China say they believe the
country has
taken major steps to stop the
practice of
taking organs from executed
prisoners.
DR.
FRANCIS DELMONICO, World Health
Organization:
The reports that we get from
Canada or the
United States or from the Middle
East of individuals
undergoing transplantation,
that's markedly
reduced, but it has not
completely stopped.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Dr. Francis
Delmonico is
an adviser to the World Health
Organization
and former president of the
Transplantation
Society.
He's leading the international
effort to help
China establish a new system of
organ donation.
When did you first become aware
that China
might be executing people for
their organs?
DR.
FRANCIS DELMONICO: 2005.
HARI SREENIVASAN: How?
DR.
FRANCIS DELMONICO: I was invited
to the Peking
Union Medical College by Jiefu
Huang, who
was, at the time, vice minister
of health.
And he was a liver transplant
surgeon.
And he said to me, "Frank, this
is -- we have
got a horrendous problem, and I
need your
help."
Individuals in China were being
executed.
And those were the -- they
became the source
of organs for many people from
around the
world going to China, as many as
11,000 transplants
being performed, and this is in
2006.
HARI SREENIVASAN: While some
doctors like
Huang Jiefu wanted this practice
stopped,
others who were making money
from organ trafficking
didn't, according to Delmonico.
To put pressure on China, a
number of medical
associations and journals
launched a boycott,
beginning in 2006, banning
Chinese research
papers that relied on data from
executed prisoners.
At the same time, Delmonico and
other doctors
helped China build a new and
legitimate system
for organ recovery, similar to
the system
in the U.S., requiring consent
and only from
live or deceased donors in
hospitals.
Has China stopped harvesting
organs from people
that they have executed, that
they are executing?
DR.
FRANCIS DELMONICO: I don't know
that for certain.
So I can say to you that it's
markedly reduced.
But can I assure you or the rest
of the world
that it's completely stopped?
I can't.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Delmonico says
there's a
new generation of doctors in
China that want
and embrace the reforms that are
taking place
in China's transplantation
system.
But human rights investigator
Ethan Gutmann
says China is still killing
prisoners and
taking their organs.
ETHAN GUTMANN: Our report shows
tremendous
continuity over time, even while
they're -- the
Chinese are making completely
different statements
about this.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Leading
experts to call
for inspections of Chinese
hospitals.
DR.
JACOB LAVEE: What needs to be
done now is
an international committees of
transplant
experts that will be allowed to
visit China
and verify the source of these
organs.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In his
desperation, this
man says he didn't think about
where his new
kidney came from, and, looking
back, that
he has no regrets.
MAN (through translator): It's
given me a
new outlook on life.
I had an opportunity to see my
children graduate
from universities.
I have a happy life with my
wife.
HARI SREENIVASAN: For the "PBS
NewsHour,"
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Memorial Day,
of course,
is the traditional kickoff to
summer.
And for many of us, that means
time to catch
up on our reading.
Jeffrey Brown brings us some
suggestions from
our "NewsHour" Bookshelf.
JEFFREY BROWN: Some of us go for
lighter fare.
Some catch up on missed
readings, and others
go for rereadings of old
favorites.
We get some summer picks from
two prominent
writers who also own bookstores.
Louise Erdrich is author of 15
novels, as
well as nonfiction and poetry.
Her most recent novel is
"LaRose."
Prior to that, "The Round House"
was winner
of the National Book Award for
Fiction.
She's the owner of Birchbark
Books in Minneapolis.
And Emma Straub's novels include
"Modern Lovers"
and "The Vacationers."
She is co-owner with her husband
of the Brooklyn,
New York bookstore Books Are
Magic.
And welcome to both of you.
I'm guessing that you both are
year-round
readers, but let me start with
you, Louise.
Does summer reading have a
particular resonance
for you, the things you go
after?
LOUISE ERDRICH, Author,
"LaRose": It does.
I'm here in Minnesota, so I go
to the lake,
and I bring a load of books, and
I sink into
them, and read wherever I am
around a lake.
That's how we do it.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's how you do
it in Minnesota,
huh?
LOUISE ERDRICH: And that's how
we do it.
It's reading on the dock.
It's reading if you're floating
in the lake.
It's reading if it rains,
everything.
That's where you read, and you
can read yourself
into a sort of stupor, which you
then solve
with a lot of grilled meat.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: And Emma Straub,
what do you
do in the summer for reading?
EMMA STRAUB, Author, "Modern
Lovers": Well,
starting this summer, I'm just
going to go
to Louise's house by the lake
with a stack
of books and wait for grilled
meat.
LOUISE ERDRICH: It will be
great.
Yes, it's how it happens.
EMMA STRAUB: It sounds perfect.
It sounds perfect.
I guess I have always thought of
summer reading
as like the stack of books I
would bring with
me to summer camp, you know,
when you have
no other options.
So you have to bring as many as
you will think
you will read.
And then, when you read all of
those books
in three days, you have your
parents send
you another box and another box.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, Louise,
you're going to
start us off with a crime
thriller, right?
What is it?
LOUISE ERDRICH: I am.
Actually, there are 25 of Donna
Leon's crime
mysteries set in Venice.
Venice itself becomes a
character in these
books.
It's "Eternal," and eternal
fragility is really
encapsulated in the books in an
effortless
way.
It's part of the tension of
these books.
They're Commissario Guido
Brunetti mysteries.
You become so wrapped up in
these compelling
characters, that I think you
could go through
all 25 this summer.
I think you could, Jeff.
Each one is better than the
last.
JEFFREY BROWN: Alright, Emma,
what do you
want to start off with a --
something comparable?
EMMA STRAUB: Well, you know,
it's funny.
I think my picks are sort of
going in the
opposite direction, which is,
rather than
having like an entire body of
something to
dive into, what I have been
leaning toward
recently are things that come in
small packages.
So, that is short stories and
essay collections,
in particular two essay
collections, a woman
named Durga Chew-Bose's "Too
Much and Not
the Mood," which looks like a
work of art
and is a work of art.
They are essays about identity,
and family,
and becoming an adult
JEFFREY BROWN: And the other?
EMMA STRAUB: It's called
"Sunshine State"
by a woman named Sarah Gerard.
And it's an essay collection
about Florida.
And it's a deep dive into
identity and weirdness
and location and family.
And I think that, together,
these books just
point toward a really exciting
and fresh new
corner of American essays in
particular.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, Louise, you
also had some
other choices on the list you
sent us, a little
more serious nonfiction and
poetry.
LOUISE ERDRICH: I do.
And I don't think people usually
take poetry
to the beach to read, but this
book has been
sold by its cover for quite some
time.
JEFFREY BROWN: And we should
say, its called
"When My Brother Was an Aztec,"
right, by
Natalie Diaz.
LOUISE ERDRICH: It is.
Natalie Diaz is a powerhouse of
a writer.
And this book is a wild ride.
It has headlong rushes of
ecstatic, beautiful
language, small details about
life on Mojave
Reservation.
Natalie Diaz is Mojave.
And this is set in Arizona
mainly, but it's
also, of course, set in her
heart and her
head.
And there's a sensibility that
is so dark,
but so funny.
It's just such a rich,
compelling piece of
literature.
You know, it's just the kind of
book that
you want to live with each poem
for a while.
JEFFREY BROWN: And, Emma, you
gave us some
essay collections.
How about a fiction, a beach
fiction escape?
EMMA STRAUB: There's a new
collection of short
stories that just came out a
couple of weeks
ago by a young woman named
Lesley Nneka Arimah.
It's called " What It Means When
a Man Falls
from the Sky."
It's about family and
relationships.
And it's got a gorgeous cover.
And it's been sitting there at
the very front
of my bookstore.
And I keep walking past and
fondling it, and
picking it up and waiting for
the right time
to bring it home.
I'm really excited to read that
one.
JEFFREY BROWN: And you mentioned
there was
a novel.
EMMA STRAUB: It's called "Do Not
Become Alarmed."
And the reason that it's almost
cruel to recommend
for vacation reading is because
it is a vacation
gone extremely, horribly,
horribly wrong.
It's about...
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: Enjoy your
vacation right?
(CROSSTALK)
EMMA STRAUB: If you're going on
a cruise,
I do not recommend that you
bring this book.
It's about two families who go
on a cruise
together.
And they decide to disembark the
boat one
day and go and go and have a
little adventure.
And then the children get
separated from their
parents, and a lot of things go
really, really
badly.
But it's an incredibly gripping
thriller.
It's one of those books that you
really will
stay up late to read.
And you're just saying, oh, I
will just read
one more chapter, I will just
read one more
chapter, which is, it's so
delicious when
you get one of those books.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK, let me just
ask you both
very briefly for a re-reading,
some old favorite.
Louise, you first.
LOUISE ERDRICH: I'm thinking
about all of
Lorrie Moore's books.
It was such a pleasure to read
them the first
time.
And I thought, I just want to
reexperience
them the way I did before.
So I started "Bark" again,
"Birds of America."
I have "Who Will Run The Frog
Hospital."
Of course, she's known for her
extremely sharp
wit, sharp observations, her
tremendous ability
to capture the moments between
couples that
where they grate against each
other or where
they come together.
Those are beautiful moments in
the book.
And, sometimes, they're very
poignant.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK, Emma Straub,
briefly, your
re-read?
EMMA STRAUB: So, my re-read
choice is Jennifer
Egan's "A Visit from the Goon
Squad."
When I read it, it just -- I
felt kind of
like I had been hit over the
head with a frying
pan.
I just -- you know, I thought
stars were twirling
around my head like a cartoon
character.
I just was gobsmacked.
And every time I have dipped my
toe back in,
I am delighted all over again.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK, now, we're
going to have
more books from your list
online.
And viewers can go there later
on.
For now, summer books with
Louise Erdrich
and Emma Straub.
Thank you both very much.
EMMA STRAUB: Thank you.
LOUISE ERDRICH: Thank you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Some terrific
suggestions
there.
That's it for the "NewsHour"
tonight.
I'm William Brangham.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you.
We will see you soon.